# Evaluation-of-Boosting-Algorithms-for-P300-Detection-in-EEG-Signals
Brain-Computer Interfaces have impacted the lives of many, especially those whose  mobility and ability to speak are affected. It is able to do so by bridging the gap between  thoughts and devices. One of its most popular applications, the P300 Speller, is a powerful aid  that allows the patients to regain a certain level of autonomy. Detection of a P300 peak and  character identification are the two major components of a P300 speller. In this study, the first  component of P300 speller is covered. Various conventional learning algorithms like Support  Vector Machine, Discriminant Analysis, Neural Network and their variants have been used in  previous studies. These methods have limitations: some are prone to overfitting; others require a  large amount of training data, while there are some limitations that necessitate complicated  computing thus making them less favorable for real-time analysis.  Boosting algorithms are very less explored in the field of Electroencephalography (EEG) and  less prone to most of the limitations of these conventional models. This paper evaluates the  performances of LightGBM and CatBoost on the dataset used in the competition BCI NER 2015  on Kaggle. These algorithms have recently gained popularity and have proven to be powerful.  Further, they are compared with the performances of XGBoost and AdaBoost and a maximum F1  Score of 0.84 was achieved using LightGBM as a classifier. 
